Eyes are extremely important to lead a happy life. The inner beauty of a person is shown through the eyes. Sparkling and bright eyes are charming. It is a dream of every person to get rid of eye problems and have a bright pair of eyes but the most important question we face in this case is how to strengthen eyesight naturally and have sparking eyes? There are some great tips which our grandmothers have been telling us throughout the years. The best way to deal with tired or unhealthy eyes is by using the best home remedies for eyes using all natural ingredients that have absolutely no side effects. Lack of sleep is the main reason for tired looking, puffy eyes. Sleep is one of the best ways to have healthy and lovely eyes. In case your work forces you to cut down on your sleep, you can use these home remedies.

Home Remedies for Bright and Sparkling Eyes:
These home remedies will help to relieve tired eyes and eliminate puffiness. They will soothe your eyes from all kinds of pain. You need to be cautious about using any kind of home remedies around the eyes. It is better to check the remedy on your hand first to know the reaction. In case you experience redness or irritation in that particular area, choose a different remedy. Staying outdoors in the hot sun is unwise and acts as poison to the eyes. Your eyes tend to squint due to the bright sunlight. Make it a habit of wearing sunglasses when outdoors. The common cause for eye strain is inadequate lighting. People tend to strain their eyes to look through the dim light. Let the light fall on the paper or book which you are reading from. Try out these easy beauty tips for eyes and get attractive and sparkling eyes.

Cucumber:
Cucumbers are one of the widely known home remedies for dark under eyes. It is considered as the most effective way to brighten your tired eyes. The high water content in the cucumber is the main ingredient that will help the most. Take an ice-cold cucumber and cut it into thick slices. Relax your head and place these slices on your closed eyes. Keep it on for 10 minutes or till the cucumber slices get warm.

Olive Oil Tea BagsOlive Oil Tea Bag:
Green tea and green tea mixed drink are the best option for quick refreshment. Green tea bags is one of the easiest and handy home remedies for under eye dark circles that also helps in relaxing and soothing tired eyes. Both green tea and black tea contain bioflavonoids. Tea bags will help to reduce bacteria and inflammation. Place wet green tea bags in the freezer to chill. Apply olive oil with a cotton ball on your eyes, while you chill the tea bags. Remove the tea bags from the freezer after a few minutes. Find a place to relax and place these chilled tea bags on your eyes. Leave them on for ten minutes and wash your face. Dry it and moisturize as usual.

Milk Remedy:buttermilk (1)
Natural clear face tips are incomplete without the inclusion of raw milk into it. Cold milk is one of the most nourishing home remedies for bright eyes that reduces puffiness and tiredness of eyes. If you feel that you are looking tired these days, try this great milk treatment to soothe and relax your eyes. Take a cup full of ice cold milk.  Throw in few cotton balls and let them soak for a minute. Lie down in a relaxed position. Place a towel under your head and tightly close your eyes. Place these milk soaked cotton balls on your eyes for 10 to 15 minutes. Wash your face and moisturize as usual.

Strawberry:
Strawberries that are stored in the fridge are a treat on a summer day. It is considered one of the best anti aging fruits loaded with antioxidants. But most people don’t know that strawberries can cure puffy and tired looking eyes and can give you bright white eyes naturally. Strawberries will help your eyes appear brighter and healthy. Remove the tops of a few frozen strawberries and cut them into slices. Place these strawberries under your eyes and let them on for 5 minutes. Wash and moisturize your face after removing them.
Besides removing the swelling strawberries will also make your skin smoother and younger looking. This is because strawberries contain alpha-hydroxy, which is the same ingredient found in many facial expensive creams. So now you can have the same ingredient for a lower cost.

Exercise the Eyes:
You can try some simple eye exercises to relax your eyes. It works better if you can practice these just before going to bed. Take a pen and move it horizontally and vertically in front of your eyes. Try to focus your eyes on the tip of the pen.

Hydrate the Eyes:
Try to avoid staring at the computer screen for too long. However, you are doing it even now which just makes it really obvious that you cannot avoid the computer screen. What you can do instead is to blink often to avoid eyes from drying. Take a break from the computer screen after every 50 to 60 minutes.

Hydrate the eyes
Potato Slices:
Like cucumber, the water content in potatoes helps in reducing the puffiness around the eyes. It is also an effective home remedy for dark circles. Potatoes also contain a high amount of vitamin C and potassium. The potassium will help to keep all the fluids balanced in the body. The skin will absorb anything put on it. The skin will thus absorb all the essential nutrients. You will have bright and healthy eyes. This remedy will also help to eliminate the dark circles around the eyes.
Store a potato in the fridge overnight (2 hours will do the job too). Cut it into thick slices. Close your eyes and rest your head on something comfortable. Place the cold slices on your eyelids. Leave it on for 10 minutes or till the slices become warm. Change the slices if you want a more relaxing effect and leave it on for another 10 minutes. Distract yourself from your eyes. Listen to music and wave a goodbye to your stress.

Rose Water:
Rose water is another effective way to soothe, reduce and heal eye strain and provide you with attractive and sparkling eye. It has a pleasant fragrance that can benefit the skin in many different ways. It firms, tones, hydrates the skin. It also prevents stressed skin, acne, wrinkles and sunburns. Rose water is just wonderful for the eyes. It contains antibacterial and antiseptic properties.
Take a small bowl with a few teaspoons of cool rose water. Soak two cotton pads in the rose water and place them on your eyelids. Leave it on for 10 minutes. You will have a soothing experience with this home remedy.

Mint Leaves:
The application of mint leaves and mint oil for hair and skin is quite popular. This is also an age old Indian eye remedy for healthy and sparkling eyes. Use mint leaves, honey and almond oil together for healing and energizing the eyes. Your eyes will look bright and lovely every day if you add this remedy to your bedtime routine. Take few crushed mint leaves in a small bowl. Add some water and mix it well. Extract the juice and add few drops of almond oil and honey. Place this mixture on your eyes just before going to bed.

Lavender Oil:
Lavender oil is an age old hair fall home remedy that also aids to relieve tired and strained eyes. Take ½ liter water in a bowl and add a drop of lavender oil to it. Mix it together and dip two cotton pads into this mixture. Place these cotton pads on your eyelids.

Honey and Cardamom:
The mixture of cardamom and honey will help to strengthen your eyesight. Mix a few seeds of cardamom with a tablespoon of honey. Apply this mixture every day in the morning, wait for 30 minutes and wash off with cold water.

Turmeric:
Turmeric or holy powder is a spice with a lot of benefits. With this remedy, you will gain brighter eyes in a short period of time. Turmeric is also useful for improving skin tone and complexion that makes it one of the most effective dark circles home remedies as well. You need to take a big piece of turmeric.  Wash it and soak it in lemon juice.
You need to put it in a glass bowl and cover it for a month. After a month, take the turmeric piece and grind with one cup of rose water. Strain out the juice and use them as eye drops. This juice will give you bright and sparkling eyes.

Amla Remedy:
For sparkling eyes soak a teaspoon of dry amla in a cup of water overnight. Strain the juice and add another cup of water. Wash your eyes with this solution every morning. You will notice your eyes sparkling in a few days.

Fennel Seeds
This common kitchen spice is well known for its health benefits and especially useful in treating indigestion. But this spice is also an effective answer to the question of how to get sparkling eyes. Fennel is useful for improving vision and eye health, and fennel solution can also be used as an eye cleanser.
To prepare the eye cleansing solution, you will need to boil a teaspoon of fennel seeds in two cups of water till the water is reduced to half of its previous volume. Now, cool and strain the liquid and use this solution to cleanse your eyes 2 to 3 times every week.

Almonds and Milk Scrub
Almonds are one of the healthiest of nuts that have several health benefits. But almonds and almond oil are rich sources of antioxidants and vitamin E that improves skin tone and regenerates new skin cells which help in lightening dark circles naturally. Milk is the most effective natural moisturizer that soothes and revitalizes the soft and delicate skin around the eyes.
For this remedy, you will need 5 to 6 soaked almonds. You have to peel and crush the almonds and add a teaspoon of milk to it. Mix well and apply this pack around the eyes and massage for 2 to 3 minutes in soft circular motion. Leave it on for 30 minutes and wash off with water for lively and bright eyes.

Extra-Virgin Coconut Oil
There is no need to emphasis on the health and beauty benefits of coconut oil. The use of coconut oil for grey hair and as a natural moisturizer is well known. It also reduces puffiness around eyes along with wrinkles and fine lines. The nutrients present in the oil revive and rejuvenates the delicate skin around the eyes and gives a smooth texture to the eyes.

Coconut oil
The best thing about this remedy is that it is simple and hassle-free. You can just pour some extra-virgin coconut oil on your palms and apply it around your eyes. Massage gently with your fingers and leave it on for 2 to 3 hours and wash off with water.

Hydrate Yourself :
Eyes can become puffy when it isn’t properly hydrated. When the body lacks water, it stores any water that it receives; this will cause water retention and swelling. You need to drink at least eight glasses of water every day. Drinking plenty of water is extremely helpful. It flushes out the harmful toxins from your body making your eyes clear and healthy.

drinking water
Juice Intake:
The benefits of juicing for healthy skin and eyes need no introduction. Try to increase the intake of vitamin A and C. You need to keep it as a daily routine even when your eyes aren’t tired. These vitamins will brighten the whites around the pupil. Make your own fresh juice every day. Try to make orange juice, carrot juice and lemon juice.

Anti aging juices
The foods you eat on a daily basis also have a strong impact on your skin and eyes and, therefore, it is important to make healthy food choices rich in essential nutrients. Some natural protein sources are meat, fish and eggs. Also, dairy foods will help to maintain healthy eyes. Keep your body hydrated all the time. This will give a bright look to your eyes and will help to reduce eye puffiness. Stay healthy and active all the time. This will benefit you in many different ways. From keeping your body active to losing weight, everything comes with a price tag, a healthy lifestyle. Take care of your eyes with these easily available eye beauty tips and enjoy a stress-free life. Nothing is worth your health.