If you want brighter skin, it is very important to take care of the various aspects of skin care. As there are several things to cover, we have divided the article into various sub sections for your convenience. Feel free to skip to the section that is relevant to you.
a. Beauty Tips based on your Skin Tone
b. Beauty Tips for Daily Skin Care Routine
c. Beauty tips for Face Whitening
d. Beauty tips for Common Face Problems
e. Seasonal Beauty tips for Face Whitening
f. Homemade Face Masks

a. Beauty Tips Based on Your Skin Tone:
Different skin types have different needs and endure different problems. It is important to identify your skin tone and take necessary action.
1. Beauty tips for oily skin:
This is the most troublesome skin type to have. The troubles are countless, but when maintained right, this skin type can have a certain glow and charm that is breath taking.

Common troubles:
The common problems include coarse skin with enlarged visible pores and a dull appearance due to the over production of oil in the skin. This in turn gives a shiny and greasy sheen. Frequent acne and blemishes, blackheads, white heads and dark spots are also some of the common problems of oily skin.

Simple tips:
    Maintain a healthy diet including lots of raw veggies and fruits; avoid oily and junk food.
    Always keep your face clean. This helps in keeping away excessive oiliness and acne.

2. Beauty tips for dry skin:
If you think oily skin is a pain, then let us tell you that having dry skin isn’t a walk in the park either. Dry skin gets very uncomfortable, especially in the winters and in extreme cold temperatures. This results in intense pain and unsightly appearance when not taken care of properly.

Common troubles:
Dry skin usually seems to have fine texture with dullness, but on a closer look there may be some flaky or granulated sections particularly around the corners of the mouth, eyes, and forehead. If neglected it will form wrinkles and become more brittle with age.

Simple tips:
    Don’t use hot water while taking a shower.
    Never leave the shower without applying moisturizer.
    Pat dry your skin after a shower and always use a soft towel.

3. Beauty tips for combination skin:
With this, we get both the good and bad qualities of oily and dry skin type! Combination skin usually has a mix of both oily characteristics having large pores, a constant shine, and breakouts especially in the T-zone -the forehead, nose, chin area and dry skin characteristics i.e., itching, flakiness, redness on the cheeks.

Common troubles:
You shall face the troubles of both the skin types depending on the climatic conditions and also which skin type is more dominant.

Simple tips:
    If have an oily skin type, then your hormones play a great influence over whether or not you end up with combination skin. Here are few very basic things you can do it help your skin look and feel better.
    Keep your face clean at all times to prevent oily zones from catching an infection of any kind.
    Hunt for the perfect moisturizer for you. These can never be the same for people with this skin type as there will always be variations in the degrees of oiliness and dryness. And once you find it, don’t change!
    Use the appropriate amount of moisturizer depending on your skins reaction to the climatic conditions. Too much moisturization will cause problems with the oily zone and less of it will cause problems with the dry zone.

b. Beauty Tips for Daily Skin Care Routine:
No matter what your skin type is, making sure that your skin is clean is extremely important for it to remain healthy and clear. This is where your skin care routine comes to play. Cleaning the skin of the dirt and grime of the daily life, removing the dead skin cells and making sure that you don’t leave the pores open to more dirt accumulation is essential. This procedure we all know includes cleansing, scrubbing/ exfoliating, toning and moisturizing.

4. Beauty tips for cleansing:
Our skin gets exposed to varied amount of dust, smoke and heavy pollution resulting in dryness, dullness and more which is basically, lifeless skin. Cleansing ensure that the radiance of the skin is maintained. Only if cleansing is done properly, your skin accepts different products with ease, like moisturizers and facial masks.

5. Beauty tips for exfoliating:
Just cleansing and moisturizing regularly will not work any magic on the skin unless you clear and remove the dead skin cells from time to time. Exfoliating should be practiced regularly to remove the older dead skin completely, giving you skin which is very smooth and fresh. Scrubbing once a week is a must. If your skin type demands more, like oily skin does, then do it as many times as necessary.

6. Beauty tips for Toning:
This is very frequently asked question – “Is toning really important when I actually cleanse and moisturize my skin regularly? “Yes! Toning is an important element of the cleansing process. A good toner will remove all the remaining bits of oil, dirt and debris left behind by the cleanser. More importantly, toner will help soothe, nourish and hydrate the skin while restoring its delicate pH balance.

7. Beauty tips for Moisturizing:
Whatever your skin type maybe, it shouldn’t stop you from moisturizing your skin regularly. Moisturizing plays a vital role in skin care – keeping it hydrated and preventing it from redness or flaking. It also helps you prevent the early signs of aging. If you have oily skin, it doesn’t mean that your skin gets enough nourishment from the oil produced. This is a very common misconception. Pick a good gel based moisturizer and use it regularly.

c. Beauty tips for Face Whitening:
You cannot change the colour of the skin you are born with, unless you go in for full skin transplantation like MJ. But you can always make it more glowing and youthful from inside with these home remedy beauty tips for face whitening.
orange juice benefits for skin

8. Vitamin C intake in the form of juices like orange juice/ mausambi juice or even a cup of water in the morning with 1tspn of squeezed lime or lemon and half a teaspoon of honey is great to start your day with.

9. Vitamin A should be an important part of your diet. To tighten and brighten the complexion you need to include non-fat milk, egg yolks and shell fishes in your diet. You should also have foods like carrots, watermelons and ripe papaya which are coloured. The beta carotene in these is what you should include in your diet.

10. Exposure to the sun should be lessened. Wear a cap or hat or take an umbrella when it’s too hot outside. Use a UVA and UVB sunscreen, at least 20minutes before stepping out into the sun.

11. Scrub the whole body with some natural scrubber or a mixture of sugar and honey, it works real well. Grind sugar and massage till it dissolves. Dissolved sugar works like a stop watch to show that you’ve massaged and scrubbed your skin till it’s required to. Everyday exfoliation doesn’t need to be vigorous or for lengthy time period. 3-5 minutes is good enough.

12. Regular exercise is recommended for people who don’t have an active lifestyle, like housewives.

13. Drinking 8-10 glasses of water is essential for a hydrated and toxin free body.

14. Sometimes (at least once a month) hire someone or ask someone you are comfortable with to scrub your body with castor oil or olive oil, and fat sugar granules(not the granulated ones that you use every day).

15. If you feel extensive care is needed, go in for a once a month microdermabrasion peel from a reputed clinic.After 4-6 sittings, follow up at home with regular care.While taking peels you will not be recommended bleaching. So avoid that.

16. If you feel extensive care is needed, go in for a monthly microdermabrasion peel from any reputed clinic. After 4-6 sittings, follow up at home with regular care. It is recommended not to bleach while undergoing peels. Keep that in mind.

17. If you are someone who doesn’t want to go in for chemical peels, then use some natural peel off masks. You can also use bleach that suits your skin. There are a number of bleaches available these days in the market. Invest in a good brand. We prefer Dabur Oxybleach which comes with both pre and post bleach creams.

d. Beauty tips for Common Face Problems

18. Beauty tips for Pimple/Acne:
Inflammation from acne blemishes can over stimulate the skin’s pigment-producing cells and cause them to create too much melanin. Once the blemishes clear, they frequently leave behind small, dark blotches on the skin that is known as post inflammatory hyper pigmentation.

Due to the higher levels of melanin in darker skin tones, people of color are particularly susceptible to the development of post-acne skin discolorations. While these dark spots fade eventually on their own, several measures can be taken to help speed up the process.

19. Beauty Tips for Dark Circles:
Puffy eyes accompanied by dark circles are an indicator of ill health or extreme lack of sleep. But sometimes, even additional factors like dehydration and allergies can cause it. This is more and more prevalent as one grows older. But it is not uncommon to find this even in younger people when they are not getting enough rest, or they have a bad diet. Habits like smoking and drinking too much only make matters worse!

20. Tips for Wrinkles/Anti-Aging:
Everybody grows older and with age, the skin loses its elasticity leaving you with those hideous wrinkles that give away your age.
But every once in a while we all run into people who we look at and there looks just don’t betray their true age. Wondering how? It can be very simple.

Simple Tips:
    Good diet.
    Keep fit. Good health reflects in the skin.
    Avoid bad habits like smoking for they definitely contribute to dull, dry and aged skin.
    You can also follow a few of our simple home remedies for Anti-Aging.

e. Seasonal Beauty tips for Face Whitening:
It is no longer a surprise that seasonal changes affect our skin in different ways, all depending on our skin types. So let’s go through this on basis of skin type.
21. Seasonal tips for oily skin:
Winter: Moisturization
People with oily skin type have been living with one misconception for a very long time. And that is that the oily skin doesn’t need moisturization. Whoever told you that is wrong. Just because the skin generates excess oils doesn’t mean that it is receiving sufficient nourishment. Always make sure you moisturize as required, especially in winters as the skin tends to dry out then. Use a gel based moisturizer for better results.

Summer: Cleansing and toning
Oily skin is a magnet for dirt and during the summers and with the addition of sweat to the equation only makes it easier for infections to find a foothold. So cleanse regularly and tone too. This will ensure that the dirt is removed and the pores are closed.

22. Seasonal tips for dry skin:
Summer and Winter: Moisturization
The most important thing for this type of skin is moisturization. Your skin is dry by default and the dryness in the air surrounding can only make matters worse. So make sure that during all seasons you have that bottle of favorite moisturizer at hand and keep your skin hydrated. More on how to care for dry skin during winters.

23. Seasonal tips for combination skin:
Summer and winter:
Since combination skin comes with the troubles of both skin types, the key is to keeping the skin clean, pores closed and skin hydrated. These are the requirements for both skin types. So it is all about finding the right balance in the routine.
After having spent so many years ignoring the centuries of knowledge from our ancestors, we have finally admitted that some of the most effective remedies ever are the ones that we concoct from our backyard! So here some of the simplest and most effective face masks.

f. Homemade Masks:
Homemade face masks are the best solutions to bring back life and glow to your skin.

24. Simple Avocado Mask:
    Using a ripe avocado, scoop and mash the meat
    If desired, combine with one tablespoon each of honey and/or plain yogurt
    Smooth on face, avoiding eyes

25. Basic Honey Mask:
    Combine one tablespoon each of honey and olive oil
    Add two teaspoons lemon juice
    Beat in one egg yolk
    Apply it on face and allow to dry before rinsing

Before applying any mask, open the pores by applying a warm, damp washcloth to the face. After removing the mask, rinse with warm water, and then cold. These two are face masks that we can use irrespective of your skin type.

Homemade Scrubs:
a. Papaya Face Scrub:
    Exfoliating is vitally important for rejuvenation of skin. The following face tip will leave skin feeling soft and renewed.
    Mash the meat of a ripe papaya with a fork.
    Add 2-3 teaspoons ground oatmeal and one teaspoon sugar.
    Mix into a thick paste.
    Massage into skin for several minutes, allow it to dry.

This is one that you can use no matter the skin type. For more check out more of our homemade face scrubs.

Homemade Moisturizers:
Daily moisturizing is essential, and natural ingredients are easy to find in your kitchen. Many homemade moisturizers are made from perishable food items, and mixtures should be refrigerated and used within three days to a week.
a. Cocoa Butter and Egg Moisturizer for Normal Skin:
    Melt two tablespoons cocoa butter over low heat
    Separate one egg yolk and add to butter
    Add two tablespoons lemon juice

By using natural oils, fruits, juices, and sugars, you can create cleansers, moisturizers, and masks in your own kitchen. Search the internet for the myriad of recipes available, or experiment and create mixes custom-made for your own skin.

In the present days where most of the people are busy with their lifestyles, taking care of the skin becomes a huge issue. Concerned about our readers, we conducted an expert roundup among beauty experts and bloggers. We received wonderful tips for face whitening that we compiled below for your knowledge.

1. Iva: Iva
I must start off by saying that I am not a huge believer in whitening and don’t ever recommend using harsh chemical’s on your skin. For me it is all about brightening your complexion and about taking care of your skin.
1. Use an AHA or a BHA exfoliator regular, depending on your skin type. This will help brighten your skin, keep it clear broom blemishes and will take off any dead skin cells.
2. Always use SPF, but especially if you are doing any whitening treatments or any type of AHA or BHA treatments at home. I don’t whiten my skin but I am never out without a SPF 50 on my face. Make sure that your SPF protects from both UVA and UVB rays. I love the Alpha H Daily Essential Moisturiser SPF 50, the Clinique Super City Block Oil-Free Daily Face Protector SPF 40 or the Clarains UV Plus HP SPF 40.
3. Listen to your skin. We get focused on one problem area or a “problem” that we see that we don’t take a step back to see the broader picture. If your skin is flaking than no matter how bright it is you need to step up your routine. Even oily skin can be dehydrated. I see this lot. Use oil free products but make sure that you are adding back lots of moisture into your skin. Use a serum designed especially for rehydrating oily skin.
Iva: www.minimalgray.com

2. Sherrie Berry:Sherrie Berry
Skin Again has developed a formula called ‘Youth that uses a triple action, natural and safe approach to face whitening:
1. An extract from a plant called Rumex occidentalis which grows in the northern Canadian Prairies region.  Rumex extract has a strong inhibitory effect on tyrosinase, one of the main enzymes involved in the pigmentation process. In vitro and clinical data have demonstrated that Rumex extract reduces skin pigmentation for a more uniformed and lighter skin complexion. It also has outstanding results in the reduction of the appearance of age spots.
2. TGF-ß biomimetic peptide inhibits the cellular pathway to decrease pigmentation allowing optimal whitening and lightening effects.
3. Exopolysaccharides that encourage natural cell turnover.
Sherrie Berry: www.skinagain.com

3. Dr. Hal Simeroth:Hal Simeroth
1. First, exfoliation of the top epidermal layers (the Stratum Corneum) in order to remove the current darkened areas which are primarily due to sun exposure. Ongoing exfoliation will also encourage a more rapid turnover of new epidermal skin cells that migrate from the bottom layers of the epidermis to the top layer of keratin protein on the skin’s surface. This rapid turnover will allow other brightening protocols to be more effective in less time. For best results use both mechanical exfoliators (scrubs) as well as natural exfoliators such as fruit enzymes (gentle but effective) and natural fruit acids (alpha hydroxy acids) which will provide immediate lighter and brighter skin appearance without damaging the skin’s melanin producing cells (melanocytes).
2. Second, in addition to exfoliation, the effects of melanin pigment in our epidermal cells can be mitigated by the use of clinically proven lightening ingredients. Skin lightening products in the past focused on inhibiting tyrosinase, an enzyme that plays a part in melanin production and delivery to the skin cells. We now know there are three ways to inhibit melanin pigment in epidermal cells. First, melanocytes (the cells which produce the pigment) can have their production activity reduced. Second, there are multiple ways of inhibiting tyrosinase; and third, the actual transmission of melanin to the epidermal cells can be inhibited. An ideal skin lightening product will have a combination of ingredients that address all three of these inhibiting methods. Key natural ingredientcombinations to look for to address all three functions are: bellisperennis extract,lemon peel bioferment, magnesium ascorbyl phosphate (stable vitamin C), glucosamine, uvaursi extract (natural arbutin), niacinamide (vitamin B3), licorice root extract, ferula foetida extract, &boerhaaviadiffusia extract. Using a lightening product such as this, applied twice daily,will be quite effective in lightening the skin over time. Real results begin to show after four weeks of use when the first new turnover of new epidermal cells begin to externally appear. Ongoing use will continue to lighten skin further over a ninety day period.
3. The third best tip is what to avoid. First, obviously, is sun exposure or artificial tanning methods. These will definitely increase melanin production. Use sunscreen and avoid prolonged sun exposure even with sunscreen. Second, avoid certain treatment ingredients that can be harmful. Topical steroids can give short term results but have definite unwanted side effects. Hydroquinone was popular in the past as a skin lightening agent, but again there are unwanted side effects … about 70% of the users experience a deposition of yellow-brown pigment in the dermis, and it often has a negative impact on collagen and elastin.  Hydroquinone is a banned substance in many countries and may also contribute to skin and renal cancer.
Dr. Hal Simeroth: www.stemologyskincare.com

4. Nikitha:Nikitha
1. Drinking water saves you from a lot of skin related problems. Drink ample amounts of water in a day. At least 8-10 glasses in a day (which i try to follow always).
2. Have some fresh fruit juices in the morning 2-3 times in a week. Orange and Apple juices are my favorites here. However you can try your own tasty juices as well which have rich source of Vitamin A considered good for skin. Just ensure they are taken fresh. Try to avoid Soft Drinks, they aren’t good.
3. My final tip for recommendation is to use any natural peels face masks for getting White and glowing skin.

5. Astrid Lam:Astrid Lam
1. use sun block everyday, even if you don’t go outside, an spf 30 would be fine.
2. use a slice o tomato and rub it on the skin.
3. take a milk bath- mix 1 gallon of milk in your bath and inmerse there for 30 minutes.
Astrid Lam www.makeupbyastridlam.com

6. Connie Tai:Connie Tai
1.  Use a moisturizer formulated with brightening ingredients and sunscreen:
We love ingredients that naturally contain actives that brighten complexions such as licorice, mulberry and pearl.  We also recommend using a moisturizer with a higher SPF – ideally 30 or higher.  Sun exposure not only increases age spots, sunburns and the risk of skin cancer, it ages the skin prematurely – ultimately making complexions appear less vibrant.  Sunscreens need to be reapplied in order to effectively protect the skin against sun exposure.  The higher the SPF, the longer the amount of time before another application is needed.  For example, an SPF 15 will provide 150 minutes (2.5 hours) of sun protection before another application is needed.  On the other hand, an SPF 45 will provide 450 minutes (7.5 hours) of protection.  Since it is unlikely that many people will commit to reapplying sunscreen every 2.5 hours, it’s best to choose a sunscreen with a higher SPF – ideally something that will last from dawn till dusk!
2.  Exfoliate your skin 3x per week:
We definitely do not advocate over-exfoliating as this can also be damaging to the skin and cause the skin to harden over time. However, exfoliating 3x a week is recommended to remove dirt, oil and dead skin cells from pores, allowing your moisturizers to absorb more effectively.  By both removing dead skin cells and helping your moisturizer absorb more effectively (thus reaping greater benefits from your moisturizer!), you will a enjoy brighter, fresher looking complexion.
3.  Fill your diet with fruits and vegetables rich in minerals, vitamins and antioxidants:
We especially love figs because they are natural detoxifiers, important because toxins in the body may prevent nutrients from reaching the skin, ultimately causing dull complexions.  We also love sweet potatoes because they are rich in carotene and vitamins A and C, all essential for a luminous complexion!
Connie Tai: www.miyubeauty.com

We hope this post helps you in the quest of whiten skin. Now that if you have any queries with these experts, you can feel free to ask them through comments.
We hope this list of skin wonders will help you in the quest of bright skin. Comment and let us know about your favorite tips for the same.